Blockchain-assisted verifiable and secure remote sensing image 
retrieval in cloud environment 
Abstract

Secure retrieval of remote sensing images in an outsourced cloud environment 
garners considerable attention. Since the cloud service provider (CSP) is 
considered as a semi-trusted third party that may return incorrect retrieval results 
to save computational resources or defraud retrieval fees for profit, it becomes a 
critical challenge to achieve secure invariable remote sensing image retrieval. 
This paper presents a secure retrieval and blockchain-assisted verifiable scheme 
for encrypted remote sensing images in the cloud environment. In response to the 
characteristic that geographical objects in remote sensing images with clear 
category attributes, we design remote sensing image retrieval method to facilitate 
secure inefficient retrieval. In addition, we propose a verifiable method combined 
with blockchain and Merkle trees for checking the integrity and correctness of 
the storage and retrieval services provided by CSP, which can replace the 
traditional third-party auditor. The security analysis and experimental evaluation 
demonstrate the security, verifiability, and feasibility of the proposed scheme, 
achieving secure remote sensing image retrieval while preventing malicious 
behaviour of CSP.

Existing System: 

The framework of secure CBIR is generally composed of two modules: feature 
protection and feature similarity measurement. The progress of these modules 
will be reviewed specifically. The goal of feature protection is to extract the image 
features and encrypt them with encryption techniques to ensure the encrypted 
image feature descriptors can be used for retrieval calculation. Generally, the 
visual content of remote sensing images is expressed by traditional hand-crafted 
or deep network features [25]. In particular, deep learning networks have been 
demonstrated to have a strong ability to recognize essential features of images 
[26]. As a result, it is feasible and acceptable to employ deep network features to 
retrieve remote sensing images since they show an overwhelming advantage over 
hand-crafted features 

Disadvantages: 

Although works [7] have low computational complexity, the encrypted features 
still remain the original feature information and the retrieval performance is 
insufficient, implying that the retrieval security and performance of these works 
are invade-quate. To solve the above problems, a secure image retrieval based on 
homomorphic encryption is proposed 
Proposed system: 
we propose a blockchain-assisted verifiable and secure remote sensing im-age 
retrieval in the cloud environment in this paper. Our goal is to share remote 
sensing images securely and efficiently a semi-trusted cloud environment, as well 
as check the integrity and correctness of retrieval results without TPA. 

Advantages: 

Considering the vulnerabilities of TPA, the blockchain is employed for security 
verification in this paper. Since current retrieval verification schemes do not 
consider the correctness of the retrieved results and the correctness of the 
similarity ranking of the returned images, we combine blockchain. 
Modules: 
User: 

Using this module mobile user can register with application and 
login with valid username and password. User will get key from key 
management to login upload image and encrypt data and send to cloud 
server with block chain for attribute. User can view data and send to cloud..  

Cloud Server : 

Using this module cloud server will login view data uploaded by user and 
view requests from retravel user and respond to message by send request 
to block and verify block chain and then send decryption key to retravel 
user. 

Block chain Server:      

Using this module block chain server can login view requests from cloud 
server verify block chain and send confirmation to retravel user.            

Key management : 

Using this module key management will login and 
view users authorize and send security key for login. 

Architecture: 

System Requirements: 
SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS: 
HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS: 
• PROCESSOR   
• Hard Disk          
• Ram    
: I3. 
SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS: 
• Operating system  
: 40 GB. 
: 2 GB. 
: Windows. 
• Coding Language 
• Data Base  
• IDE   
References: 
:  
:  
JAVA/J2EE 
MYSQL 
:Netbeans8.1 
[1] H. Tamiminia, B. Salehi, M. Mahdianpari, L. Quackenbush, S. Adeli,and B. 
Brisco, “Google earth engine for geo-big data applications: Ameta-analysis and 
systematic review,” ISPRS Journal of Photogram-metry and Remote Sensing, 
vol. 164, pp. 152–170, 2020. 
[2] P. Gao, H. Zhang, J. Yu, J. Lin, X. Wang, M. Yang, and F. Kong, “Se-cure 
cloud-aided object recognition on hyperspectral remote sensingimages,” IEEE 
Internet of Things Journal, vol. 8, no. 5, pp. 3287–3299, 2021. 
[3] Q. Zhao, S. Chen, Z. Liu, T. Baker, and Y. Zhang, “Blockchain-based privacy
preserving remote data integrity checking scheme foriot information systems,” 
Information Processing & Management,vol. 57, no. 6, p. 102355, 2020. 
[4] K. N. Sukhia, M. M. Riaz, A. Ghafoor, and S. S. Ali, “Content-basedremote 
sensing image retrieval using multi-scale local ternary pattern,”Digital Signal 
Processing, vol. 104, p. 102765, 2020. 
[5] J. Zhu, Q. Li, C. Wang, X. Yuan, Q. Wang, and K. Ren, “Enablinggeneric, 
verifiable, and secure data search in cloud services,” IEEETransactions on 
Parallel and Distributed Systems, vol. 29, no. 8, pp.1721–1735, 2018 
